“An LSST Community Workshop: Science Driven Optimization of LSST's
Observing Strategy” August 20-22, 2015; Kitsap Conference Center,
Bremerton, WA

The 2nd announcement (June 12, 2015)

http://lsstsciencecollaborations.github.io/ObservingStrategy/

Meeting Rationale:

Are you interested in contributing to planning LSST's Observing Strategy?  Then
this workshop is for you.  It will be the second in a series of LSST
workshops aimed at engaging the community interested in LSST to help
optimize its observing strategy.

This past year, the LSST Project generated a large number of simulated
Observing Strategies. These simulations can be used to quantitatively
assess the scientific capabilities of any given implementation of
LSST's core survey operations
(https://confluence.lsstcorp.org/display/SIM/OpSim+Datasets+for+Cadence+Workshop+LSST2015).

The main goal of the 2015 workshop is to identify metrics by which
simulated LSST survey realizations can be tested for scientific
efficacy, and to develop quantitative algorithms to assess them.  For
example, the measurement uncertainty on proper motion is one metric to
describe the efficacy of a given LSST Observing Strategy.  Proper
motion uncertainty involves a least-square (LSQ) fit of a straight
line to a number of “observed” positions obtained in a simulated
survey. Given a model of expected astrometric errors (their dependence
on the seeing and attained signal-to-noise ratio), this metric can be
computed as formal statistical uncertainty of the best-fit LSQ
parameters.

This workshop will also: 

1) Engage a broad community in defining more robust and quantitative
   science drivers for regions beyond LSST's core survey area (the
   coverage of the Galactic Plane, LMC/SMC, south Galactic Pole area,
   and the Ecliptic plane),

2) Begin the definition and editing of a community white paper about
   LSST observing strategy and its science-driven optimization,

3) Present a status update on LSST's Observing Strategy optimization,
   and report on the analysis of the new set of simulated surveys, and

   4) Utilize tools developed by the LSST Project for assessing the
   scientific potential of simulated cadences (Metrics Analysis
   Framework).  In advance of the workshop, we will provide a day long
   remote training for those who would like to adopt the MAF in their
   research and LSST-related work. Participation in these activities,
   or familiarity with MAF, is not required to attend the workshop.
   If you are interested to participate in this training, please fill
   out this Doodle poll.



See http://lsstsciencecollaborations.github.io/ObservingStrategy/ for
the tentative meeting schedule and to register.  The registration
deadline is July 24, 2015.  Hotels near the conference site are
already filling up for Wednesday, August 19 and registration is
limited to 100 attendees, so don't wait!

For inquiries, please email: ivezic@astro.washington.edu or any other SOC member.


Scientific Organizing Committee:
Debbie Bard, SLAC
Andy Connolly (co-chair), University of Washington
Zeljko Ivezic (co-chair), University of Washington
Phil Marshall, SLAC
Tom Matheson, NOAO
Steve Ridgway, NOAO
Michael Strauss, Princeton University
Lucianne Walkowicz, Adler Planetarium
Beth Willman, Haverford College
